Add documentation for cds-typer (#305)
cap-js/docs: tools/cds-typer.md

## Starting `cds-typer`

You can use `cds-typer` in three ways: conveniently integrated into VSCode, through the CLI, or programmatically.

### Integration into VSCode  {#cds-typer-vscode}

Using the [SAP CDS Language Support extension for VSCode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=SAPSE.vscode-cds), you can make sure the generated type information stays in sync with your model. Instead of [manually calling](#typer-cli) the type generator every time you update your model, the extension will automatically trigger the process whenever you hit _save_ on a _.cds_ file that is part of your model. This requires the [`typer`facet](#typer-facet) to be added to your project.
Opening your VSCode settings and typing "`cds type generator`" into the search bar will reveal several options to configure the type generation process.
Output, warnings, and error messages of the process can be found in the output window called "`CDS`".
If you stick to the defaults, saving a _.cds_ file will have the type generator emit [its type files](#emitted-type-files) into the directory _@cds-models_ in your project's root.

### Command Line Interface (CLI) {#typer-cli}

```sh

> npx @cap-js/cds-typer /home/mybookshop/db/schema.cds --outputDirectory /home/mybookshop

Author: As of today, the default is to generate the files into the CWD. I am fine with leaving this parameter out although users will probably use it most of the time.

> npx @cap-js/cds-typer /home/mybookshop/db/schema.cds --outputDirectory /home/mybookshop

Reviewer: So here the default is different from using VS Code? Did I get that right? If it's best practice to use this option, I'm fine with having it. I just had the feeling that things are much easier wrt configuration, if we just not show deviations from the defaults :)

> npx @cap-js/cds-typer /home/mybookshop/db/schema.cds --outputDirectory /home/mybookshop

Author: That is correct! VSCode comes with a configuration option that is used for `--outputDirectory`. It just so happens to have its default set to `@cds-models` there and I therefore documented it that way.

```

The CLI offers several parameters which you can list using the `--help` parameter. 

> ::: details You should then see the following output:

Author: It is pretty wide, yes. I would really like to avoid having to maintain the possible parameters manually. I therefore opted for showing the output, which we can generate from `cds-typer` directly.
I do see your point that the output is currently not easy on the eye. I will try to make it look more like the [output of `cds help`](https://cap.cloud.sap/docs/tools/#cds-help).

> ::: details You should then see the following output:

Reviewer: Does this command have an output that is worth showing?
```sh
npx @cap-js/cds-typer /home/mybookshop/db/schema.cds --outputDirectory /home/mybookshop
```

> ::: details You should then see the following output:

Author: It does not output anything with the default configuration, no (you can pass in a `--logLevel` to produce output, but that's not the default).

> ::: details You should then see the following output:

Author: ![Screenshot 2023-07-19 at 11 18 35](https://github.com/cap-js/docs/assets/103028279/8f7f57f2-f605-4d0a-86de-657745622e60)
I have reworked the output of `cds-typer --help` to look more aesthetic. Would this be more agreeable? (Only screenshot for now to not interfere with your changes).

The plural form exists as a convenience to refer to a collection of multiple entities. You can [fine tune](#fine-tuning) both singular and plural names that are used here.

You could import these types by using absolute paths, but there is a more convenient way for doing so which will be described in the next section.

## Subpath Imports
Adding type support via `cds add typer` includes adding [subpath imports](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#subpath-imports). Per default, the facet adds a mapping of `#cds-models/` to the default path your model's types are assumed to be generated to (_\<project root\>/@cds-models/_). If you are generating your types to another path and want to use subpath imports, you will have to adjust this setting in your _package.json_ **and** _jsconfig.json_/ _tsconfig.json_ accordingly.

Consider [the bookshop sample](https://github.com/SAP-samples/cloud-cap-samples/tree/main/bookshop) with the following structure with types already generated into _@cds-models_:

```
bookstore
│   package.json
│
└───@cds-models

> │   └───<see above>

Author: It refers to the layout [a bit up in the text](https://github.com/cap-js/docs/blob/e0cee5ab84de386510f6e9e018bc35f6d422042c/tools/cds-typer.md#about-the-emitted-type-files-emitted-type-files)
We don't have a way to add links in listings to point to that section more directly, do we?

> │   └───<see above>

Reviewer: We could say "see previous section" that would already help. Or "see About Emmitting ..."
As this just refers to the layout I'd prefer "described in previous section". That give an idea for what someone should look in the previous section. While a "see previous section" doesn't give me enough information to decide if I want to look there now or not.

> │   └───<see above>

Author: sounds good 👍

```js
// srv/cat-service.js
const { Books } = require('../@cds-models/sap/capire/bookshop')
const { Books } = require('#cds-models/sap/capire/bookshop')
```

These imports will behave like [`cds.entities('sap.capire.bookshop')`](https://pages.github.tools.sap/cap/docs/node.js/cds-reflect#entities) during runtime, but offer you code completion and type hinting at design time:

```js
class CatalogService extends cds.ApplicationService { init(){
  const { Book } = require('#cds-models/sap/capire/bookshop')

  this.on ('UPDATE', Book, req => {
    // in here, req is known to hold a payload of type Book.
    // Code completion therefore offers all the properties that are defined in the model.
  })
})
```

Note that just as with `cds.entities(…)`, these imports cannot be static, but need to be dynamic:

```js
// ❌ works during design time, but will cause runtime errors
const { Book } = require('#cds-models/sap/capire/bookshop')

class CatalogService extends cds.ApplicationService { init(){
  // ✅ works both at design time and at runtime
  const { Book } = require('#cds-models/sap/capire/bookshop')
})
```

## Using Emitted Types in Your Service

> The types emitted by the type generator are tightly integrated with the CDS API. The following section elucidates where the generated types are recognised by CDS.

Reviewer: Explain? Illustrates? Demonstrates? Let's use simpler language.
```suggestion
The types emitted by the type generator are tightly integrated with the CDS API. The following section illustrates where the generated types are recognized by CDS.
```
